[Music]
hello very good morning welcome to
breakfast with john walker and louise
mentioned
the headlines for you at six o'clock
this morning football divided as six
premier league clubs confirm they'll
join a breakaway european super league
the organizers say it will bring more
money into the game but the reaction
from
fans politicians and many players has
been furious
that's just a complete lack of
understanding of our game
our traditions what we love about
football
what's in our hearts when we go and
watch football and when we play the game
the good weather means a busy weekend
for pubs that could open but hospitality
bosses worn many venues are still closed
and they urge the government to stick to
the timetable
the stage is set for the first
helicopter flight on another planet
nasa's
ingenuity craft should take off from the
surface of
mars within hours
back together abbas bjorn on how the
band have been meeting up ahead of their
new virtual tour
we meet in person with
masks and you know what tests and
whatever
good morning it's a chilly start to the
day here in the roof of broadcasting
heights in london
it's chilly for many of us but it's
going to be another sunny warm day
across england and wales
when we lose the mist and fog for
scotland in northern ireland a bit more
cloud for you
with rain at times in the west i'll have
only details
in 10 minutes
[Music]
good morning it's monday it's the 19th
of april top story for you this morning
six
premier league football clubs have
announced plans to join a breakaway
european super league
arsenal chelsea liverpool manchester
city manchester united
and tottenham have agreed to join six
european sides to start a new
mid-week tournament now this move has
been condemned by the premier league
and uefa who run the game in europe
who've said players could be banned from
taking part in any competitions
including playing for their countries
adam wilde has this report
these are english football's most
successful clubs
but with such success comes great power
and even greater wealth
creating a new league with europe's
other football giants has the lure of
untold riches
but at what cost this new super league
includes english football's so-called
big
six arsenal tottenham chelsea liverpool
manchester city and manchester united as
well as leading clubs from
spain and italy what's proposed is a
mid-week competition
with as many as 20 clubs in total and
eventually
a women's league as well but it's been
met with both criticism
and condemnation it's beyond belief
actually
that they can think that they can put
this idea
forward and for it just to be brought in
smoothly and everyone accept it
that's that's just a complete lack of
understanding of our game
our traditions what we love about
football what what's in our hearts when
we go and watch football and when we
play the game
you know the heart of the game you know
just just ripping it out of us and just
just stealing our game fans at
yesterday's fa
cup semi-final seemed equally
unimpressed
when you take a league and you make a
bit of a closed shop
it's just completely unfair it defeats
the point of competition competitive
football
of course you don't like the idea i
think i speak for most of the fans as
well we don't like this
it seems like a lot of the big boys
don't like the idea of smaller clubs
great crashing
their party and taking away some of
their revenue and tv revenue but
i think hopefully other clubs will fight
it it's all money orientated and
everything load of cos wallop
european football's governing bodies
have also reacted angrily
in a joint statement from uefa the fa
and the premier league
as well as many of their continental
counterparts
they call such plans cynical and founded
on the self-interest of a few clubs
this persistent self-interest of a few
has been going on for too long they say
enough
is enough even the prime minister has
got involved tweeting
plans for a european super league would
be very damaging for football
and we support football authorities in
taking action
they would strike at the heart of the
domestic game
and will concern fans across the country
the founding clubs behind the new super
league claim they now want to work with
the game's current governing bodies
in turn they have already warned those
taking part
may be banned from other competitions
and players forbidden from representing
national sides
negotiations will not be easy adam wilde
bbc news it's probably important to tell
you why
it's uh top of the news this morning sal
because uh you're gonna be
with us quite a bit in the studio today
talking to a number of guests as well it
hasn't gone down well with with so many
elements of of those who love this game
and have been such an important part of
the game for such a long time yeah and i
think the important thing is
it's just a really stark reminder isn't
it if you're lucky enough to go and
watch your football team maybe you have
a season ticket you are lucky enough to
go and watch them i think we are all
lulled into this kind of
weird sense that it's still a community
you're watching with your friends you
project everything
that you love onto this team that you
follow it's all about loyalty but
actually this is a big reminder
it's a business and it's about money so
fans groups associated with all six
english clubs have voiced their
opposition to the new european super
league
liverpool supporters group spirit of
shankly said they were appalled by the
decision of fenway sports group
the club's u.s based owner they said
fsg have ignored fans in their
relentless and greedy pursuit of money
football is ours not theirs our football
club is ours and
not theirs chelsea supporters trust
called the move
unforgivable and said their members and
football supporters
across the world have experienced the
ultimate
betrayal and the arsenal supporters
trust called the club's agreement to
join
the death of arsenal as a sporting
institution
well speaking yesterday one person who i
think spoke
really summed it up for everybody as the
former manchester united
player and current sky sports pundit
gary neville
it's pure greed they're imposters
they're imposters they're nothing to do
the owners of this club the owners of
liverpool the owners of chelsea the
owners of manchester city
they're nothing to do with football in
this country there are a hundred nod
years of history in this country from
fans
that have lived and loved these clubs
and they need protecting the fans need
protected
i think gary neville just echoing what
we've already said this morning that
actually this now
is a situation where the fans maybe need
their
interests protecting going forward um
and we'll be speaking to all sorts of
people throughout the program sally and
if people want to get in touch
i'm sure they will yeah thank you yeah
do let us know what you think about that
or anything else we're covering on the
program
today lots of other stuff in the in the
show though for you and um
elsewhere more than three quarters of
licensed premises in england remain
closed according to the latest
market recovery figures pubs and
restaurants in england have been allowed
to serve customers
outside for a week and many of those
which did open enjoyed a very busy
weekend as john donason reports
reason for cheer for many in england
this weekend saw them out on the town
for the first
time in months a little bit of sunshine
adding to the mix
everyone's out it's blue skies out i
mean
what more do you want it was about an
hour and a half to two hours we queued
up
wasn't too bad we had a couple of drinks
in the queue we ordered our food
whatever happy days
but with only outdoor table service
allowed
figures from the hospitality industry
show less than a quarter of licensed
premises in england
have actually been able to reopen around
a third of all pubs are back pulling
pints many with beer gardens
but it's been much tougher for
restaurants which are far more dependent
on indoor dining
some of the country's biggest
hospitality firms have signed a letter
urging the government to stick to plans
to allow that in england
from may the 17th and unlike in england
pubs and restaurants will only begin to
reopen in wales scotland and northern
ireland later this month covid infection
rates are now at their lowest levels
since last september
but as people mix more that could change
and there remain concerns about new
variants of the virus reaching the uk
the latest of which seems to have
originated in india
the hospitality industry is hoping this
is just the beginning
but health officials will be watching
closely to see what impacts this latest
easing of restrictions
has john donason bbc news
the jury in the trial of derek shove in
the former police officer accused of
murdering george floyd in the u.s will
retire to consider a verdict today let's
speak to our correspondent lemur desecco
who's in minneapolis where the trial is
being held
of course um and the outcome could have
huge repercussions and when we like to
hear the verdict
well we don't know the a judge told the
jury to pack for a short time
uh packed for a long time excuse me and
expect hope that it will be a short time
that they spend uh deliberating so in
the morning at around nine o'clock
we expect the prosecution and the
defense to set out their closing
arguments so
really bringing home the arguments that
they've been setting out over the past
couple of weeks we will then hear the
judge give the instructions for the
jurors to take away as they consider
their decision on the charges the three
charges that derek chovin's facing
it could be anything from a few hours to
several days in terms of a verdict so
we're just going to have to sit tight
and see what happens
okay thank you for the update thank you
a wildfire on the slopes of south
africa's table mountain has spread to a
nearby university campus forcing the
evacuation of hundreds of students
the fire started yesterday morning and
tore through dry grassland
and destroyed several buildings
helicopters have dropped water
to try and douse those flames which have
been fanned by strong winds
people living in australia and new
zealand can now travel freely between
the two countries without
needing to quarantine the so-called
travel bubble
has opened up after more than a year of
restrictions
both countries closed their borders last
march the australian and new zealand
governments have warned that tougher
measures may
be introduced if there's a coronavirus
outbreak
now nasa will try to make history today
by launching
a small helicopter from mars
if the mission succeeds it will be the
first time that powered and controlled
flight has been achieved on another
planet
our global science correspondent rebecca
morel has the details
footage from mars the final test for
nasa's helicopter as it gets ready for
liftoff
it's the first attempt at powered flight
on another planet
this animation reveals how it might look
but with the extreme conditions on mars
and the fact that there's barely any
atmosphere
it won't be easy it feels absolutely
nuts
um of course i mean what we've been
flying on earth for just over a hundred
years and now we're like yeah we're
gonna go to another planet and fly
it's crazy right but you know that's the
beauty of exploration that's the beauty
of engineering
nasa's helicopter is a feat of
engineering
it weighs just 1.8 kilograms that's four
pounds
and it has two long rotors which spin in
opposite directions
up to two and a half thousand
revolutions per minute
this is much faster than a helicopter on
earth but it needs this speed to lift
off in the extremely thin martian
atmosphere
its first test flight takes it 3 meters
above the ground for 30 seconds
before rotating and finally landing then
for the next 30 days it will begin to
fly much
further afield the helicopter is part of
nasa's most ambitious mars mission to
date
these are all images taken in the last
few weeks
we'll find out soon if the technology
has worked and a new era in flight
has begun rebecca morel bbc news
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news